Hello, everyone.
Let's understand what our Hamiltonian spots so Hamiltonian path is about in a directed or undirected
graph that visits each vertex exactly once.
A problem to check whether a graph which is undirected or directed contains a Hamiltonian bothered an
and b complete problem.
So is the problem of finding all Hamiltonian paths in the graph, right?
So the Hamiltonian part is a very simple thing.
It says it's a normal part where we have to visit every vertex.
Exactly what that means.
I cannot visit any vertex trace.
Correct.
So for example, as per this graph, if I start from zero, let's I go to one, I go to two and I go
to three.
So I visited all the world, all the verdict.
Exactly once.
Right.
So there's no condition for edge.
You may leave some edges in the path, of course.
And yeah.
Then let's see if I start from one.
If I start from when I let's say I go to two, I go to three.
But then I will not be able to go to zero without going through one.
Right.
So it will be one and then zero.
So this is not a Hamiltonian, but.
Correct.
Why is this not a Hamiltonian?
But because.
The simple reason I'm visiting one place.
I have to visit every vertex exactly once, and they can be either Hamiltonian bonds here as well.
So starting from one, I will not get any Hamiltonian but.
But starting from three.
Yes I can get it.
Three, two, one, zero.
Right.
So there can be various, like many Hamiltonian paths in a particular graph.
And what we have to do is we just have to check that if I have been given a graph, will there be a
Hamiltonian path in it or not?
I just have to check whether there will be a part or not.
Nothing else.
Right.
So what's the best way to do that?
So before moving forward, let's understand the brute force approach.
So what will be the brute force approach to check if a Hamiltonian by exist or not?
So if if there's an Hamiltonian part, it will be one of the permutations of or all the vertex is right.
For example, basically here we have forward, right?
So we will have four factorial different combinations of these vertex is there can be four factorial
different parts.
So for all the paths, what I can do is I can go and try it out.
Let's see, this is one of the examples.
Let's say I have zero one, two, three.
Then what a good thing to simply check from zero.
Can I go to one or not?
Yes, I can from one.
Can I go to two or not.
Yes I can from to get negative three or not.
And from trig and A from three, I don't have to go anywhere.
So what I can do is for every consecutive pair of all the four factorial different combinations, what
I can do is I can check for all the consecutive pairs, like there's an edge between these pairs or
not.
If there's an edge between these figures, that means the answer is possible.
Right.
So that is a brute force solution.
And what is the dang complexity of the solution that will have for the first solution will have and
factorial different combinations into n for checking whether the edge exists or not.
Correct.
So this is a very high complexity solution.
That is the preferred solution.
But can we do better?
Yes, we can try and do the backtrack solution.
Of course, there are other solutions for this problem.
For example, there is a solution which is recursive.
Right.
I'm not saying it is backtracking, but it is a recursive solution.
Will see this recursive solution in the later sections in DP with big mosque section of the schools
state.
So that said exemplars memory memory solution that we'll see.
And then after that we can see we can also see in the in the follow up problem that I've taken the pivot
bit mask there, we have used dynamic programming and took help of math to solve the same problem.
Right, which reduces down the complexity even further.
So yeah, but before moving there, let's just concentrate on the backtracking solution.
So for the backtracking solution, what can I do?
What is the best way to backtrack and figure out whether a Hamiltonian by the exist or not?
So it's very simple, right?
I can start from any node straight or I can start from every node.
So let's start from zero.
And then what I'll do is I'll just keep up with the genetic.
Right.
I can keep it straight, Eddie.
For example, let's say the system is genetic, and this will mean whether a node is visited or not
so that I don't visit it again.
Correct.
So initially, let's say the arrays filled with zeros.
And finally, I'll start from I'll initially start from zero.
I just perform the backtrack.
Basically, I perform the recursion.
I'll go deeper insight.
And when I'm visiting a node, when I'm on a particular vertex, I'll market as visited so that I don't
visit it again.
Correct.
And also, I'll keep a count count of the number of nodes that I visited.
Right.
So count of nodes over this is that I have visited.
I have visited yet.
And then let's do a dry run over here so that there's no confusion on what's happening.
Let's let it take some time for more minutes.
Good.
So what I'll do is I'll start from ten one zero.
I'll market has visited a utility market with my it has visited so I'm just removing zeros from one.
So I've marked this zero as visited.
Now what I'll do is the number, the count of the nodes have.
Being one.
That means the number of nodes I visited is one.
Now from zero I can go to one because one was not visited.
So I just go to and then from one I can go to two.
Correct.
And from two, I can go to three because it was not visible.
So here you'll see that the count of note in the end will be four that will have visited all the nodes
in my graph.
So here I'll get in Hamiltonian.
But now let's try a different approach, which is starting from one letter and starting from one or
number one.
So I'll market it.
Visited the number of nodes I visited is one.
Then from one I can go to zero.
Else I can go towards I can do three also.
Right?
So let's go to zero.
So from when I'm moving to zero I'll Margaret is visited.
So the number of nodes that I visited is two, then I'll come back.
Right.
So what is the meaning of coming back.
That means if, if I'm going from 1 to 0, I'm going to come back.
So coming back means any Margaret is unvisited.
Again, this is the most important part because let's say this, this was also an edge, right?
So when I'm visiting some particular node I and when I'm coming back from it, that means I did not
find any further angle or a further pod from that particular node.
So if I did not find any path and just marketed and visited, right.
So when I visited a node I'll market is visited and when I come back, when I return back from the node,
I simply market is unvisited.
This is the most important part of this bag tracking, right?
That if you're going through a part that's good going find a path.
If it exists, that's great return true.
Otherwise if you don't find it, you unvisited, you unlock the same thing or you change its value to
something else.
That means I did not go through the line, but I come back and I try going on to the different path,
right?
So I ultimately unvisited right.
So the solution is very simple.
Go to a node or let's say let's call it DFS only or we can call it back, dig late or let's call it
port.
So I learned a function called part.
And in this what I'll do is whenever I'm going to any normal market, that market is visited.
I go to some other nodes, let's say part of X, that means all the other bits are connected to it and
the visited of x is zero.
Correct?
That means it was not visited.
I just go and visited and also, you know, increment the count.
I have to keep this going.
Otherwise I have to just check again in again there.
How many were also visited?
So much better just to keep a count.
And finally, when I'm coming back from when I'm just returning back from the dead node, I simply market
as unvisited.
So in the next problem, in the next tutorial, let's just implement it.